
Recommendations are becoming more and more important in a world where there is an abundance of possible choices and e-commerce and content providers are featuring recommendations prominently. Recommendations based on explicit feedback, where user is giving feedback for example with ratings, has been a popular research subject. Implicit feedback recommender systems which passively collects information about the users is an area growing in interest. It makes it possible to generate recommendations based purely from a user's interactions history without requiring any explicit input from the users, which is commercially useful for a wide area of businesses. This thesis builds a recommender system based on implicit feedback using the recommendation algorithms katz-eig and link-analysis and analyzes and implements strategies for learning optimized parameters for different datasets. The resulting system forms the foundation for Comordo Technologies' commercial recommender system.

Rekommendationer blir viktigare och viktigare i en värld där det finns ett överflöd av möjliga val och där e-handel och innehållsleverantörer använder rekommendationer flitigt. Rekommendationer baserad på explicit återkoppling, där användare ger återkoppling med till exempel betyg, har varit ett populärt forskningsområde. Rekommendationssystem med implicit återkoppling som passivt samlar in information om användarna är ett område som blir mer och mer intressant. Det gör det möjligt att generera rekommendationer endast baserat på en användares interaktionshistoria utan krav på explicit input från användarna, vilket är kommersiellt användbart för en rad olika versamheter. Den här uppsatsen bygger ett rekommendationssystem med implicit återkoppling med rekommendationsalgoritmerna katz-eig och link-analysis och analyserar och implementerar optimeringsstrategier för inlärning av optimerade parameterar för olika dataset. Systemet lägger grunden för Comordo Technologies kommersiella rekommendationssystem.

